_pages/bookshelf.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: bookshelf
permalink: /bookshelf/
description: light in my life
nav: true
---

[Analog VLSI and Neural Systems](https://www.amazon.com/Analog-VLSI-Neural-Systems-Carver/dp/0201059924) by Carver Mead

"The viewpoint described in this book is the result of my conviction that the nervous system of even a very simple animal contains computing paradigms that are orders of magnitude more effective than are those found in systems made by humans." 

To me, the opening line of the book sounds like an irrefutable fact, an unsolved mystery, and one of the most challenging missions in the post Moore’s law era.  As a pioneer of neuromorphic computing, Carver explained the connections between neural circuits and electrical circuits, and described his attempts to develop computationally efficient VLSI inspired by the organizing principles of neural systems.

---

[Principles of Neural Design](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/principles-neural-design) by Peter Sterling and Simon Laughlin

Ten principles of neural design to shed light on how brains use space and power efficiently.

---

[Vision](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/vision) by David Marr

Creative and in-depth work to understand visual perception.

---

[Projections](https://www.amazon.com/Projections-Story-Emotions-Karl-Deisseroth/dp/1984853694) by Karl Deisseroth

Known as the inventor of optogenetics, Karl described his personal stories with psychiatric patients in poetic language. It reminds me that what I am working with every day are not just data points, but unique individuals with their struggles.

---

[On Intelligence](https://numenta.com/resources/on-intelligence/) by Jeff Hawkins

---

[A Thousand Brains](https://numenta.com/a-thousand-brains-by-jeff-hawkins) by Jeff Hawkins

Commit message:

Add Grothendieck's words on innocence

_pages/bookshelf.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: bookshelf
permalink: /bookshelf/
description: light in my life
nav: true
---

"In our acquisition of knowledge of the Universe (whether mathematical or otherwise) that which renovates the quest is nothing more nor less than complete innocence. It is in this state of complete innocence that we receive everything from the moment of our birth. Although so often the object of our contempt and of our private fears, it is always in us. It alone can unite humility with boldness so as to allow us to penetrate to the heart of things, or allow things to enter us and taken possession of us.

This unique power is in no way a privilege given to 'exceptional talents' – persons of incredible brain power (for example), who are better able to manipulate, with dexterity and ease, an enormous mass of data, ideas and specialized skills. Such gifts are undeniably valuable, and certainly worthy of envy from those who (like myself) were not so 'endowed at birth, far beyond the ordinary'.

Yet it is not these gifts, nor the most determined ambition combined with irresistible will-power, that enables one to surmount the 'invisible yet formidable boundaries' that encircle our universe. Only innocence can surmount them, which mere knowledge doesn't even take into account, in those moments when we find ourselves able to listen to things, totally and intensely absorbed in child's play."

— Alexander Grothendieck

---

[Analog VLSI and Neural Systems](https://www.amazon.com/Analog-VLSI-Neural-Systems-Carver/dp/0201059924) by Carver Mead

"The viewpoint described in this book is the result of my conviction that the nervous system of even a very simple animal contains computing paradigms that are orders of magnitude more effective than are those found in systems made by humans." 

To me, the opening line of the book sounds like an undeniable fact, an unsolved mystery, and one of the most challenging missions in the post Moore’s law era.  As a pioneer of neuromorphic computing, Carver explained the connections between neural circuits and electrical circuits, and described his attempts to develop computationally efficient VLSI inspired by the organizing principles of neural systems.

---

[Principles of Neural Design](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/principles-neural-design) by Peter Sterling and Simon Laughlin

Ten principles of neural design to shed light on how brains use space and power efficiently.

---

[Vision](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/vision) by David Marr

Creative and in-depth work to understand visual perception.

---

[Projections](https://www.amazon.com/Projections-Story-Emotions-Karl-Deisseroth/dp/1984853694) by Karl Deisseroth

Known as the inventor of optogenetics, Karl described his personal stories with psychiatric patients in poetic language. It reminds me that what I am working with every day are not just data points, but unique individuals with their struggles.

---

[On Intelligence](https://numenta.com/resources/on-intelligence/) by Jeff Hawkins

---

[A Thousand Brains](https://numenta.com/a-thousand-brains-by-jeff-hawkins) by Jeff Hawkins
